[{"title": "Association of HSD17B13 and PNPLA3 with liver enzymes and fibrosis in Hispanic/Latino individuals of diverse genetic ancestries.", "author": ["Rutledge SM", "Soper ER", "Ma N", "Pejaver V", "Friedman S", "Branch AD", "Kenny EE", "Belbin GM", "Abul-Husn NS"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND/AIMS: Genetic variants affecting liver disease risk vary among racial and ethnic groups. Hispanics/Latinos in the U.S. have a high prevalence of PNPLA3 I148M, which increases liver disease risk, and a low prevalence of HSD17B13 predicted loss-of-function (pLoF) variants, which reduce risk. Less is known about the prevalence of liver disease-associated variants among Hispanic/Latino subpopulations defined by country-of-origin and genetic ancestry. We evaluated the prevalence of HSD17B13 pLoF variants and PNPLA3 I148M, and their associations with quantitative liver phenotypes in Hispanic/Latino participants of an electronic health record-linked biobank in New York City. METHODS: This study included 8,739 adult Hispanic/Latino participants of the BioMe biobank with genotyping and exome sequencing data. We estimated the prevalence of Hispanic/Latino individuals harboring HSD17B13 and PNPLA3 variants, stratified by genetic ancestry, and performed association analyses between variants and liver enzymes and Fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) scores. RESULTS: Individuals with ancestry from Ecuador and Mexico had the lowest frequency of HSD17B13 pLoF variants (10%/7%) and the highest frequency of PNPLA3 I148M (54%/65%). These ancestry groups had the highest outpatient alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels, and largest proportion of individuals with a FIB-4 score >2.67. HSD17B13 pLoF variants were associated with reduced ALT (p = 0.002), AST (p = <0.001), and FIB-4 score (p = 0.045). PNPLA3 I148M was associated with increased ALT, AST, and FIB-4 score (p<0.001 for all). HSD17B13 pLoF variants mitigated the increase in ALT conferred by PNPLA3 I148M (p = 0.006). CONCLUSIONS: Variation in HSD17B13 and PNPLA3 variants across genetic ancestry groups may contribute to differential risk for liver fibrosis among Hispanic/Latino individuals."}, {"title": "COVID-19 and NAFLD: biological insights from multi-omics data.", "author": ["Pirola CJ", "Sookoian S"], "abstract": "We explored the shared pathophysiological mechanisms between COVID-19 and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) by integrating multi-omics data. We studied common genetic risk factors and underlying biological processes using functional enrichment analysis. To understand the sex-specific pathways involved in the clinical course of SARS-CoV-2 infection, we processed sex-stratified data from COVID-19 genome-wide association datasets. We further explored the transcriptional signature of the liver cells in healthy and COVID-19 tissue specimens. We also integrated genetic and metabolomic information. We found that COVID-19 and NAFLD share biological disease mechanisms, including pathways that regulate the inflammatory and lipopolysaccharide response. Single-cell transcriptomics revealed enrichment of complement-related pathways in Kupffer cells, syndecan-mediated signaling in plasma cells, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in hepatic stellate cells. The strategy of pathway-level analysis of genomic and metabolomic data uncovered L-lactic acid, Krebs cycle intermediate compounds, arachidonic acid, and cortisol among the most prominent shared metabolites."}, {"title": "Association of Inherited Genetic Factors With Drug-Induced Hepatic Damage Among Children With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.", "author": ["Yang W", "Karol SE", "Hoshitsuki K", "Lee S", "Larsen EC", "Winick N", "Carroll WL", "Loh ML", "Raetz EA", "Hunger SP", "Winter SS", "Dunsmore KP", "Devidas M", "Relling MV", "Yang JJ"], "abstract": "IMPORTANCE: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer. Hepatotoxic effects, including hyperbilirubinemia and elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels, are common during all phases of therapy and are linked to several chemotherapeutic agents, including asparaginase, mercaptopurine, and methotrexate. OBJECTIVE: To determine which genetic variants were associated with hyperbilirubinemia and elevated ALT and AST levels in children, adolescents, and young adults treated for ALL. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This retrospective analysis of a multiethnic genome-wide association study was conducted between January 1, 2019, and April 15, 2022, including patients treated as part of Children's Oncology Group (COG) trials with centers in the United States, Canada, and Australia, which accrued data from December 29, 2003, to January 21, 2011 (AALL0232), and from January 22, 2007, to July 24, 2014 (AALL0434). Germline genotypes were interrogated using genome-wide arrays and imputed using a National Institutes of Health TOPMed Imputation server. Mixed-effects logistic regressions were used to account for multiple episodes for an individual patient. Genotype x treatment phase interaction was tested to uncover phase-specific genetic risk factors. EXPOSURES: Total duration of multiagent protocol chemotherapy ranging from 2.5 to 3.5 years. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcomes were National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 4) hyperbilirubinemia of grade 3 or higher and elevated liver ALT and AST levels. RESULTS: A total of 3557 participants were included in the analysis (2179 [61.3%] male; median age, 11.1 [range, 1-30] years). Among 576 known variants associated with these liver function test results in the general population, UGT1A1 variant rs887829 and PNPLA3 variant rs738409 were associated with increased risk of hyperbilirubinemia (odds ratio [OR], 2.18 [95% CI, 1.89-2.53]; P = 6.7 x 10-27) and ALT and AST levels (OR, 1.27 [95% CI, 1.15-1.40]; P = 3.7 x 10-7), respectively, during treatment for ALL. Corresponding polygenic risk scores were associated with hepatotoxic effects across all therapy phases and were largely driven by UGT1A1 and PNPLA3 variants. Genome-wide association analysis revealed an age-specific variant near the CPT1A gene that was only associated with elevated ALT and AST levels among patients younger than 10 years (OR, 1.28 [95% CI, 1.18-1.39]; P = 8.7 x 10-10). CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These results suggest a strong genetic basis for interpatient variability in hyperbilirubinemia and aminotransferase level elevations during leukemia chemotherapy."}, {"title": "A case of NASH with genetic predisposition successfully treated with an SGLT2 inhibitor: a possible involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction.", "author": ["Nakajima R", "Sekiya M", "Furuta Y", "Miyamoto T", "Sato M", "Fukuda K", "Hattori K", "Suehara Y", "Sakata-Yanagimoto M", "Chiba S", "Okajima Y", "Matsuzaka T", "Takase S", "Takanashi M", "Okazaki H", "Takashima Y", "Yuhara M", "Mitani Y", "Matsumoto N", "Murayama Y", "Ohyama Osawa M", "Ohuchi N", "Yamazaki D", "Mori S", "Sugano Y", "Osaki Y", "Iwasaki H", "Suzuki H", "Shimano H"], "abstract": "SUMMARY: In this study, we herein describe a 47-year-old Japanese woman who manifested inheritable non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and severe dyslipidemia. Interestingly, her NASH progression was ameliorated by treatment with a sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor. This inheritability prompted us to comprehensively decode her genomic information using whole-exome sequencing. We found the well-established I148M mutation in PNPLA3 as well as mutations in LGALS3 and PEMT for her NASH. Mutations in GCKR may contribute to both NASH and dyslipidemia. We further mined gene mutations potentially responsible for her manifestations that led to the identification of a novel M188fs mutation in MUL1 that may be causally associated with her mitochondrial dysfunction. Our case may provide some clues to better understand this spectrum of disease as well as the rationale for selecting medications. LEARNING POINTS: While the PNPLA3 I148M mutation is well-established, accumulation of other mutations may accelerate susceptibility to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH and dyslipidemia may be intertwined biochemically and genetically through several key genes. SGLT2 inhibitors emerge as promising treatment for NASH albeit with interindividual variation in efficacy. Genetic background may explain the mechanisms behind the variation. A novel dysfunctional mutation in MUL1 may lead to metabolic inflexibilities through impaired mitochondrial dynamics and function."}, {"title": "Molecular Screening via Sanger Sequencing of the Genetic Variants in Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Subjects in the Saudi Population: A Hospital-Based Study.", "author": ["Alsaif F", "Al-Hamoudi W", "Alotaiby M", "Alsadoon A", "Almayouf M", "Almadany H", "Abuhaimed J", "Ghufran N", "Merajuddin A", "Ali Khan I"], "abstract": "Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common liver diseases, along with steatosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and is associated with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Candidate gene and genome-wide association studies have validated the relationships between NAFLD, NASH, PNPLA3, TM6SF2, and HFE. The present study utilized five polymorphisms in three genes: PNPLA3 (I148M and K434E) TM6SF2 (E167K), and HFE (H63D and C282Y), based on undocumented case-control studies in the Saudi Arabian population. A total of 95 patients with NAFLD and 78 non-NAFLD subjects were recruited. Genomic DNA was isolated, and polymerase chain reaction and Sanger sequencing were performed using specific primers for the I148M, K434E, E167K, H63D, and C282Y. NAFLD subjects were older when compared to controls and showed the significant association (p = 0.0001). Non-significant association was found between gender (p = 0.26). However, both weight and BMI were found to be associated. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium analysis confirmed that H63D, I148M, and K434E polymorphisms were associated. Genotype analysis showed only K434E variant was associated with NAFLD and non-NAFLD (OR-2.16; 95% CI: 1.08-4.31; p = 0.02). However, other polymorphisms performed with NAFLD and NASH were not associated (p &gt; 0.05), and similar analysis was found when ANOVA was performed (p &gt; 0.05). In conclusion, we confirmed that K434E polymorphism showed a positive association in the Saudi population."}, {"title": "Decreased Hyocholic Acid and Lysophosphatidylcholine Induce Elevated Blood Glucose in a Transgenic Porcine Model of Metabolic Disease.", "author": ["Xu J", "Zhang K", "Qiu B", "Liu J", "Liu X", "Yang S", "Xiao X"], "abstract": "(1) Background: This work aims to investigate the metabolomic changes in PIGinH11 pigs and investigate differential compounds as potential therapeutic targets for metabolic diseases. (2) Methods: PIGinH11 pigs were established with a CRISPR/Cas9 system. PNPLA3(I148M), hIAPP, and GIPR(dn) were knocked in the H11 locus of the pig genome. The differential metabolites between and within groups were compared at baseline and two months after high-fat-high-sucrose diet induction. (3) Results: 72.02% of the 815 detected metabolites were affected by the transgenic effect. Significantly increased metabolites included isoleucine, tyrosine, methionine, oxoglutaric acid, acylcarnitine, glucose, sphinganines, ceramides, and phosphatidylserines, while fatty acids and conjugates, phosphatidylcholines, phosphatidylethanolamines, and sphingomyelins were decreased. Lower expression of GPAT3 and higher expression of PNPLA3(I148M) decreased the synthesis of diacylglycerol and phosphatidylcholines. Accumulated ceramides that block Akt signaling and decrease hyocholic acid and lysophosphatidylcholines might be the main reason for increased blood glucose in PIGinH11 pigs, which was consistent with metabolomic changes in patients. (4) Conclusions: Through serum metabolomics and lipidomics studies, significant changes in obesity and diabetes-related biomarkers were detected in PIGinH11 pigs. Excessive fatty acids beta-oxidation interfered with glucose and amino acids catabolism and reduced phosphatidylcholines. Decreased hyocholic acid, lysophosphatidylcholine, and increased ceramides exacerbated insulin resistance and elevated blood glucose. Phosphatidylserines were also increased, which might promote chronic inflammation by activating macrophages."}, {"title": "MTARC1 and HSD17B13 Variants Have Protective Effects on Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Patients Undergoing Bariatric Surgery.", "author": ["Kalinowski P", "Smyk W", "Nowosad M", "Paluszkiewicz R", "Michalowski L", "Ziarkiewicz-Wroblewska B", "Weber SN", "Milkiewicz P", "Lammert F", "Zieniewicz K", "Krawczyk M"], "abstract": "The severity of hepatic steatosis is modulated by genetic variants, such as patatin-like phospholipase domain containing 3 (PNPLA3) rs738409, transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 (TM6SF2) rs58542926, and membrane-bound O-acyltransferase domain containing 7 (MBOAT7) rs641738. Recently, mitochondrial amidoxime reducing component 1 (MTARC1) rs2642438 and hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13) rs72613567 polymorphisms were shown to have protective effects on liver diseases. Here, we evaluate these variants in patients undergoing bariatric surgery. A total of 165 patients who underwent laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy and intraoperative liver biopsies and 314 controls were prospectively recruited. Genotyping was performed using TaqMan assays. Overall, 70.3% of operated patients presented with hepatic steatosis. NASH (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) was detected in 28.5% of patients; none had cirrhosis. The increment of liver fibrosis stage was associated with decreasing frequency of the MTARC1 minor allele (p = 0.03). In multivariate analysis MTARC1 was an independent protective factor against fibrosis >/= 1b (OR = 0.52, p = 0.03) and >/= 1c (OR = 0.51, p = 0.04). The PNPLA3 risk allele was associated with increased hepatic steatosis, fibrosis, and NASH (OR = 2.22, p = 0.04). The HSD17B13 polymorphism was protective against liver injury as reflected by lower AST (p = 0.04) and ALT (p = 0.03) activities. The TM6SF2 polymorphism was associated with increased ALT (p = 0.04). In conclusion, hepatic steatosis is common among patients scheduled for bariatric surgery, but the MTARC1 and HSD17B13 polymorphisms lower liver injury in these individuals."}, {"title": "Porphyra Haitanensis Polysaccharides Attenuates Blood Lipid via Gut-Liver Axis in Diet-Induced High-Fat Mesocricetus Auratus through Multiple Integrated Omics.", "author": ["Zeng H", "Chen P", "Wang Z", "Hu X", "Zhang Y", "Zheng B"], "abstract": "SCOPE: Hyperlipidemia is currently a global public health problem severely affecting people's physical and mental health, as well as their quality of life. METHODS AND RESULTS: The present study was aimed at revealing the mechanism of Porphyra haitanensis polysaccharide (PHP) in decreasing blood lipids by acting through gut-liver axis in Mesocricetus auratus fed a high-fat diet. PHP significantly prevented increases in serum total cholesterol, triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and alleviated damage to liver cells induced by a high-fat diet Mesocricetus auratus, in a dose-dependent manner. PHP promoted proliferation of Muribaculaceae and Faecalibaculum, thereby enhancing the production of butyric acid both in the colon and liver, particular high-dose PHP (HPHP). Low-dose PHP (LPHP) promoted the expression of phosphatidylcholine metabolites and fatty acid transport genes, and inhibited the expression of genes involved in fat degradation (Abhd5), adipogenesis (Me1), fatty acid synthesis (Fasn and Pnpla3) and fatty acid chain elongation (Elovl6) in the liver. However, HPHP inhibited the expression of triglyceride metabolites and promoted the expression of fatty acid transporter (CD36), fatty acid oxidation (Acacb) and pparg genes in the liver. CONCLUSION: PHP regulates lipid metabolism through the gut microbiota, and the gut-liver axis plays an important role in its hypolipidemic effects. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."}, {"title": "Risk factors in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.", "author": ["Ko E", "Yoon EL", "Jun DW"], "abstract": "Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease, with a global prevalence estimated at approximately 25%. NAFLD is also the leading cause of liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and death. Additionally, the risk of cardiovascular disease increases with greater NAFLD severity. The liver- and cardiovascular disease-related mortality incident rate ratios among the NAFLD population were 0.77 and 4.79 per 1,000 person-years, respectively. We intend to discuss the risk factors associated with NAFLD in terms of development and progression. Obesity or higher body mass index is closely associated with NAFLD in a dose-dependent manner, but growing evidence suggests that central obesity plays a more important role in the development of NAFLD. Saturated fat and fructose have been reported to be closely related to NAFLD. Fructose intake promotes lipogenesis and impairs mitochondria fat oxidation. The presence of type 2 diabetes is the most powerful predictive risk factor for hepatic fibrosis in patients with NAFLD. Single nucleotide polymorphism is not only associated with the prevalence of NAFLD but also associated with increased liver disease mortality. Obstructive sleep apnea, intestinal dysbiosis, and sarcopenia are associated with the development of NAFLD."}, {"title": "RISK FACTORS FOR HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA IN PATIENTS WITH NON-ALCOHOLIC FATTY LIVER DISEASE.", "author": ["Cavalcante LN", "Dezan MGF", "Paz CLDSL", "Lyra AC"], "abstract": "Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is growing in worldwide prevalence and thus, is expected to have a higher number of NAFLD-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the following years. This review describes the risk factors associated with HCC in NAFLD-patients. The presence of liver cirrhosis is the preponderant one. Male gender, PNPLA3 variants, diabetes, and obesity also appear to predispose to the development of HCC, even in non-cirrhotic subjects. Thus far, intensive lifestyle modifications, including glycemic control, and obesity treatment, are effective therapies for NAFLD/ non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and, therefore, probably, also for HCC. Some drugs that aimed at decreasing inflammatory activity and fibrosis, as well as obesity, were studied. Other data have suggested the possibility of HCC chemoprevention. So far, however, there is no definitive evidence for the routine utilization of these drugs. We hope, in the future, to be able to profile patients at higher risk of NAFLD-HCC and outline strategies for early diagnosis and prevention."}, {"title": "Genetic Variation of SAMM50 Is Not an Independent Risk Factor for Alcoholic Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Caucasian Patients.", "author": ["Nischalke HD", "Schmalz F", "Buch S", "Fischer J", "Moller C", "Matz-Soja M", "Kramer B", "Langhans B", "Kluners A", "Soyka M", "Stickel F", "Nattermann J", "Berg T", "Strassburg CP", "Lutz P"], "abstract": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a severe complication of advanced alcoholic liver disease, which is modulated by genetic predisposition. Identifying new genetic loci might improve screening. Genetic variation of SAMM50 was linked to HCC. We aimed to validate this finding in a large cohort of patients with advanced alcoholic liver disease (ALD). A large, well-characterised cohort of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis without (n = 674) and with (n = 386) HCC, as well as controls with HCC due to viral hepatitis (n = 134), controls with heavy alcohol abuse without liver disease (n = 266) and healthy subjects (n = 237), were genotyped for SAMM50 rs3827385 and rs3761472 and for PNPLA3 rs738409. Genotype frequencies were compared between patients with alcohol-associated cirrhosis with and without HCC by uni- and multivariate analysis. Minor variants in both SAMM50 rs3827385 and rs3761472 were significantly more frequent in patients with alcoholic HCC versus alcoholic cirrhosis and versus the control cohorts. An even stronger association was noted for PNPLA3 rs738409. The univariate analysis resulted in an odds ratio (OR) of 1.8 for carriers of at least one minor variant of SAMM50 rs3827385 and rs3761472 (each p &lt; 0.001), but this association was lost in multivariate analysis with age (OR 1.1/year), male sex (OR 3.2), diabetes (OR 1.9) and carriage of PNPLA3 148M (OR 2.1) remaining in the final model. Although minor variants of both SAMM50 loci are strongly associated with alcoholic HCC, this association is not independent of carriage of the well-known risk variant PNPLA3 148M."}, {"title": "Metabolic-Associated Fatty Liver Disease, Hepatitis B Surface Antigen Seroclearance, and Long-Term Risk of Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Chronic Hepatitis B.", "author": ["Yu MW", "Lin CL", "Liu CJ", "Wu WJ", "Hu JT", "Huang YW"], "abstract": "The value of metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) and its ability to assess hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) risk remains uncertain for chronic hepatitis B (CHB). We evaluated the impacts of MAFLD and its coincidental metabolic abnormalities and related genetic predisposition on HCC incidence and mortality outcomes in CHB. We analyzed data from 1453 HBsAg-positive men (median age = 49.2 years at baseline) from a cohort of civil servants recruited from 1989-1992. MAFLD was defined as hepatic steatosis on ultrasound with obesity, diabetes, or metabolic dysfunction at baseline. During follow-up (median = 19.3 years), 105 HCC events occurred. MAFLD was not associated with HCC (adjusted hazard ratio (aHR) = 1.02) but was associated with a higher HBsAg seroclearance rate (aHR = 1.43). In mediation analysis, HBsAg seroclearance driven by hepatic steatosis explained 31.6% of the association between MAFLD and HCC. Antiviral treatment or fatty liver disease-associated genetic variants did not influence the MAFLD-HCC association. In contrast, even after adjustment for MAFLD and the other metabolic abnormalities, diabetes (aHR = 2.28), obesity (aHR = 1.72), and metabolic dysfunction (aHR = 3.30) increased the risk of HCC (all p &lt; 0.030). The risk of HCC increased with the number of metabolic abnormalities (vs 0: aHR = 2.05 and 5.72 for 2 and >/= 3 metabolic abnormalities, respectively), and the cumulative effect of metabolic abnormalities was found across subgroups categorized by hepatic steatosis as well as in participants both with and without HBsAg seroclearance. In conclusion, MAFLD was not associated with increased HCC incidence in CHB. A more informative assessment of HCC risk can be obtained by taking into account the number of metabolic abnormalities."}, {"title": "Genetics in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: The role of risk alleles through the lens of immune response.", "author": ["Sookoian S", "Pirola CJ"], "abstract": "The knowledge of the genetic component of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has grown exponentially over the last 10-15 years. This review summarizes current evidence and the latest developments in the genetics of NAFLD and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) from the immune system's perspective. Activation of innate and or adaptive immune response is an essential driver of NAFLD disease severity and progression. Lipid and immune pathways are crucial in the pathophysiology of NAFLD and NASH. Here, we highlight novel applications of genomic techniques, including single-cell sequencing and the genetics of gene expression, to elucidate the potential involvement of NAFLD/NASH-risk alleles in modulating immune system cells. Together, our focus is to provide an overview of the potential involvement of the NAFLD/NASH-related risk variants in mediating the immune-driven liver disease severity and diverse systemic pleiotropic effect/s."}, {"title": "PNPLA3 allele frequency has no impact on biliary bile acid composition or disease course in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis.", "author": ["Farkkila M", "Kautiainen H", "Tenca A", "Jokelainen K", "Arola J"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic inflammatory disease that leads to bile duct strictures, cholestasis, and biliary cirrhosis. PNPLA3 (patatin-like phospholipase domain containing 3), regulates cellular lipid synthesis by converting lysophosphatidic acid into phosphatidic acid. Isoleucine mutation to methionine at position 148 (I148M) causes a loss of this function. Only two studies, with contradictory results, have evaluated the role of PNPLA3 in PSC. The rs738409(G) variant of PNPLA3 has been associated with an increased risk for transplantation in male patients with dominant strictures (DS). The study aimed to evaluate the PNPLA3 allele frequency effect on the clinical outcomes, progression, and prognosis of PSC. Furthermore, we analyzed the impact of PNPLA3 on phospholipid and bile acid composition to evaluate the effect of the PNPLA3 status on UDCA response. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We recruited 560 patients prospectively and collected clinical and laboratory data as well as liver histology and imaging findings. PNPLA3 (CC, CG, GG) alleles were analyzed with TaqManTM. We also analyzed bile acids (BA), cholesterol and phospholipids and individual BA from a sample aspirated during endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERC). RESULTS: Among the recruited patients, 58.4%, 35.7% and 5.9% had the wild (CC), heterozygous (CG) and homozygous (GG) alleles, respectively. The PNPLA3 haplotype did not impact bile composition or individual BA. In addition, we found no differences in age at diagnosis, disease progression, liver fibrosis or survival between the cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: The PNPLA3 I148M variant had no significant impact on on bile composition, including UDCA content, clinical outcomes, progression of liver fibrosis, hepatobiliary cancer risk, liver transplantation, or overall survival."}, {"title": "Artificial intelligence model with deep learning in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease diagnosis: genetic based artificial neural networks.", "author": ["Ulger Y", "Delik A"], "abstract": "Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common causes of chronic liver disease in the world. The NAFLD spectrum includes simple steatosis, steatohepatitis, fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Genetic, nutritional factors, obesity, insulin resistance, gut microbiota are among the risk factors for NAFLD. The genetic variant Patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) plays an important role in the development of a number of liver diseases ranging from steatosis, chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and HCC. Due to the increase in the prevalence of NAFLD, new models are being developed with machine learning, deep learning, artificial neural network (ANN) algorithms in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) to determine low-cost, noninvasive diagnostic methods. Models developed with ANN from AI modules are important in order to examine biochemical and genomic information in detail in the diagnosis of NAFLD. The aim of this study is to develop a simple ANN model using biochemical and genotypic parameters in the diagnosis of NAFLD. A total of 300 patients followed up with the diagnosis of NAFLD and 100 controls were included in the study. The data set was divided into two as training and test set. Genotyping of PNPLA3 (CC, CG, GG) as genomic analysis was performed with real time PCR device. The algorithm used for the diagnosis of NAFLD was designed using age, body mass index (BMI), mean platelet volume (MPV), insulin resistance (IR), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), genotype PNPLA3 (CC, CG, GG) parameters. MLP Classifier algorithm from ANN was used in the development of the model. ANN algorithms are used in python programming language. Statistical analyzes were made in SPSS program. Percent accuracy, area under the ROC curve, confusion matrix, Positive (PPV) and Negative Predicted Value (NPV) values, precision, recall, and f1-score results were determined. The accuracy percentage was determined as 0.979 in the train set and 0.970 in the test set. The Log Loss value was set to 0.09. The developed neural network achieved an accuracy percentage of 97.0% during testing, with an area under the ROC curve value of 0.95. We think that the ANN model developed with genomic and biochemical parameters can be used as a cost-effective, noninvasive new predictive diagnostic model in clinical practice in the diagnosis of NAFLD."}, {"title": "Contribution of PNPLA3 gene polymorphisms to hepatocellular carcinoma susceptibility in the Chinese Han population.", "author": ["Gong D", "Li S", "Yu Z", "Wang K", "Qiao X", "Wu C"], "abstract": "OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to investigate the association of PNPLA3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (rs738409 C > G, rs3747207 G > A, rs4823173 G > A, and rs2896019 T > G) with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) susceptibility. METHODS: This case-control study included 484 HCC patients and 487 controls. Logistic regression analysis was performed to study the associations of PNPLA3 gene polymorphisms with HCC susceptibility, and odds ratios with their corresponding 95% confidence intervals were calculated to evaluate these correlations. RESULTS: In the overall analysis, we found that the G allele (OR = 1.25, 95% CI = 1.04-1.50, p = 0.018, false discovery rate (FDR)-p = 0.035) and GG genotype (OR = 1.59, 95% CI = 1.06-2.39, p = 0.024, FDR-p = 0.048) of rs2896019 were significantly associated with increased HCC susceptibility. In stratified analysis, we found that all four SNPs were related to increased HCC susceptibility in subjects aged > 55 years. In haplotype analysis, the GAAG haplotype was significantly associated with increased HCC susceptibility (OR = 1.25, 95% CI = 1.03-1.53, p = 0.023, FDR-p = 0.046). Besides, we noticed that rs738409 was significantly correlated with alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) (p = 0.007), and HCC patients with the GG genotype had a higher level of AFP. CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggested that PNPLA3-rs2896019 was significantly associated with an increased susceptibility to HCC."}, {"title": "Integrating genetic variants into clinical models for hepatocellular carcinoma risk stratification in cirrhosis.", "author": ["Nahon P", "Bamba-Funck J", "Layese R", "Trepo E", "Zucman-Rossi J", "Cagnot C", "Ganne-Carrie N", "Chaffaut C", "Guyot E", "Ziol M", "Sutton A", "Audureau E"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND AND AIMS: This study aimed to evaluate the ability of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to refine hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) risk stratification. METHODS: Six SNPs in PNPLA3, TM6SF2, HSD17B13, APOE, and MBOAT7 affecting lipid turnover and one variant involved in the Wnt-beta-catenin pathway (WNT3A-WNT9A rs708113) were assessed in patients with alcohol-related and/or HCV-cured cirrhosis included in HCC surveillance programs (prospective CirVir and CIRRAL cohorts). Their prognostic value for HCC occurrence was assessed using Fine-Gray models combined into a 7-SNP genetic risk score (GRS). Prediction ability of two clinical scores (a routine nongenetic model determined by multivariate analysis and the external aMAP score) without then with the addition of the GRS was evaluated by C-indices. The standardized net benefit was derived from decision curves. RESULTS: Among 1145 patients, 86 (7.5%) developed HCC after 43.7 months. PNPLA3 and WNT3A-WNT9A variants were independently associated with HCC occurrence. The GRS stratified the population into 3 groups with progressively increased 5-yr HCC incidence [Group 1 (n=627, 5.4%), Group 2 (n=276, 10.7%), and Group 3 (n=242, 15.3%); P<0.001]. The multivariate model identified age, male sex, diabetes, platelet count, GGT levels, albuminemia and the GRS as independent risk factors. The clinical model performance for 5-yr HCC prediction was similar to that of the aMAP score (C-Index 0.769). The addition of the GRS to both scores modestly improved their performance (C-Index 0.786 and 0.783, respectively). This finding was confirmed by decision curve analyses showing only fair clinical net benefit. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with cirrhosis can be stratified into HCC risk classes by variants affecting lipid turnover and Wnt-beta-catenin pathway. The incorporation of this genetic information modestly improves the performance of clinical scores. IMPACT AND IMPLICATIONS: The identification of patients at higher probability of developing liver cancer is pivotal to improve the performance of surveillance. Risk assessment can be achieved by combining several clinical and biological parameters used in routine practice. The addition of patients' genetic characteristics can modestly improve this prediction and will ultimately pave the way for precision medicine in patients eligible for HCC surveillance, allowing physicians to trigger personalized screening strategies."}, {"title": "Causes and Risk Profiles of Mortality among Individuals with Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver.", "author": ["Konyn P", "Ahmed A", "Kim D"], "abstract": "Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease in the United States and worldwide. Though nonalcoholic fatty liver per se may not be independently associated with an increased risk for all-cause mortality, it is associated with a number of harmful metabolic risk factors, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, obesity, a sedentary lifestyle, and an unhealthy diet. The fibrosis stage is a predictor of all-cause mortality in NAFLD. Mortality in individuals with NAFLD has been steadily increasing, and the most common cause-specific mortality for NAFLD is cardiovascular disease, followed by extra-hepatic cancer, liver-related mortality, and diabetes. High-risk profiles for mortality in NAFLD include PNPLA3 I148M polymorphism, low thyroid function and hypothyroidism, and sarcopenia. Achieving weight loss through adherence to a high-quality diet and sufficient physical activity is the most important predictor of improvement in NAFLD severity and the benefit of survival. Given the increasing health burden of NAFLD, future studies with more long-term mortality data may demonstrate an independent association between NAFLD and mortality."}, {"title": "Different effects of low muscle mass on the risk of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and hepatic fibrosis in a prospective cohort.", "author": ["Choe HJ", "Lee H", "Lee D", "Kwak SH", "Koo BK"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and sarcopenia share insulin resistance as a common pathophysiology and have overlapping clinical manifestation of metabolic derangement; hence, it is difficult to differentiate the independent effect of sarcopenia on the development of NAFLD from concomitant metabolic disorders. Using a community-based prospective cohort study, the contributions of low muscle mass and genetic risk factors to the development of NAFLD and NAFLD-related hepatic fibrosis were investigated in the Korean population. METHODS: This prospective community-based cohort study included 40-70-year-old adults, followed up biennially from 2001-2002 to 2017-2018. NAFLD was defined as a hepatic steatosis index of >/=36, and hepatic fibrosis was defined based on the fibrosis-4 index. Sex-specific quartiles of body mass index (BMI)-adjusted muscle mass were calculated (muscle mass/BMI), and low muscle mass was defined as the lowest quartile (Q1). Cox proportional hazard models for incident NAFLD or hepatic fibrosis incorporating age, sex, BMI of >/=25 kg/m(2) , metabolic syndrome and PNPLA3 and TM6SF2 risk alleles were used to assess the independent determinants for incident NAFLD and hepatic fibrosis among individuals with NAFLD at baseline. RESULTS: Among the 4038 participants without NAFLD at baseline (mean age, 51.5 +/- 8.8 years), 920 (22.8%) developed NAFLD during the 12-year follow-up period. As muscle mass decreased, the risk of NAFLD increased even after adjustment for age, sex, obesity, metabolic syndrome and PNPLA3 and TM6SF2 risk alleles [hazard ratio (HR) per quartile, 1.18, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.11-1.27, P < 0.001]. TM6SF2 also affected the risk of NAFLD development [HR 1.19, (95% CI, 1.00-1.40), P = 0.044]. Of the 1176 patients with NAFLD but without hepatic fibrosis at baseline, the incident of hepatic fibrosis was found in 51.8%, 44.7%, 42.6% and 41.0% in Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 of BMI-adjusted muscle mass, respectively, during the follow-up period (P for trend = 0.006). However, this trend lost its statistical significance when adjusted for confounders. The PNPLA3 risk variant, but not the TM6SF2 genotype, was an independent risk factor for developing hepatic fibrosis among patients with NAFLD (HR 1.17, 95% CI 1.04-1.32, P = 0.010). CONCLUSIONS: Both lower muscle mass index and genetic risk variants are important contributors to the development of NAFLD. In patients already diagnosed with NAFLD, however, PNPLA3 confers a greater risk for hepatic fibrosis progression than lower muscle mass."}, {"title": "Genetic variants associated with circulating liver injury markers in Mexican Americans, a population at risk for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.", "author": ["Sabotta CM", "Kwan SY", "Petty LE", "Below JE", "Joon A", "Wei P", "Fisher-Hoch SP", "McCormick JB", "Beretta L"], "abstract": "Objective: Mexican Americans are disproportionally affected by non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), liver fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Noninvasive means to identify those in this population at high risk for these diseases are urgently needed. Approach: The Cameron County Hispanic Cohort (CCHC) is a population-based cohort with high rates of obesity (51%), type 2 diabetes (28%) and NAFLD (49%). In a subgroup of 564 CCHC subjects, we evaluated 339 genetic variants previously reported to be associated with liver injury markers aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in United Kingdom and Japanese cohorts. Results: Association was confirmed for 86 variants. Among them, 27 had higher effect allele frequency in the CCHC than in the United Kingdom and Japanese cohorts, and 16 had stronger associations with AST and ALT than rs738409 (PNPLA3). These included rs17710008 (MYCT1), rs2519093 (ABO), rs1801690 (APOH), rs10409243 (S1PR2), rs1800759 (LOC100507053) and rs2491441 (RGL1), which were also associated with steatosis and/or liver fibrosis measured by vibration-controlled transient elastography. Main contributors to advanced fibrosis risk were rs11240351 (CNTN2), rs1800759 (LOC100507053), rs738409 (PNPLA3) and rs1801690 (APOH), with advanced fibrosis detected in 37.5% of subjects with 3 of these 4 variants [AOR = 11.6 (95% CI) = 3.8-35.3]. AST- and ALT-associated variants implicated distinct pathways (ethanol and galactose degradation versus antigen presentation and B cell development). Finally, 8 variants, including rs62292950 (DNAJC13), were associated with gut microbiome changes. Conclusion: These genotype-phenotype findings may have utility in risk modeling and disease prevention in this high-risk population."}]