[{"title": "KCTD1 and Scalp-Ear-Nipple ('Finlay-Marks') syndrome may be associated with myopia and Thin basement membrane nephropathy through an effect on the collagen IV alpha3 and alpha4 chains.", "author": ["Wang D", "Trevillian P", "May S", "Diakumis P", "Wang Y", "Colville D", "Bahlo M", "Greferath U", "Fletcher E", "Young B", "Mack HG", "Savige J"], "abstract": "INTRODUCTION: Scalp-Ear-Nipple syndrome is caused by pathogenic KCTD1 variants and characterised by a scalp defect, prominent ears, and rudimentary breasts. We describe here further clinical associations in the eye and kidney. METHODS: Fifteen affected members from two unrelated families with p.(Ala30Glu) or p.(Pro31Leu) in KCTD1 were examined for ocular and renal abnormalities. The relevant proteins were studied in the eye and kidney, and the mutation consequences determined from mouse knockout models. RESULTS: Five males and 10 females with a median age of 40 years (range 1-70) with pathogenic variants p.(Ala30Glu) (n = 12) or p.(Pro31Leu) (n = 3) in KCTD1 were studied. Of the 6 who underwent detailed ophthalmic examination, 5 (83%) had low myopic astigmatism, the mean spherical equivalent of 10 eyes was 2.38D, and one (17%) had hypermetropic astigmatism. One female had a divergent strabismus.Five individuals had renal cysts (5/15, 33%), with renal biopsy in one demonstrating a thinned glomerular basement membrane identical to that seen in Thin basement membrane nephropathy (AD Alport syndrome).In the eye, KCTD1 and its downstream targets, TFAP2, and the collagen IV alpha3 and alpha4 chains localised to the cornea and near the retinal amacrine cells. In the kidney, all these proteins except TFAP2 were expressed in the podocytes and distal tubules. TFAP2B and COL4A4 knockout mice also had kidney cysts, and COL4A3 and COL4A4 knockout mice had myopia. CONCLUSION: Individuals with a pathogenic KCTD1 variant may have low myopic astigmatism and represent a further rare genetic cause for a thinned glomerular basement membrane."}, {"title": "Urine Molecular Biomarkers for Detection and Follow-Up of Small Renal Masses.", "author": ["Zalimas A", "Kubiliute R", "Zukauskaite K", "Sabaliauskaite R", "Trakymas M", "Letautiene S", "Kaubriene EM", "Usinskiene J", "Ulys A", "Jarmalaite S"], "abstract": "Active surveillance (AS) is the best strategy for small renal masses (SRMs) management; however, reliable methods for early detection and disease aggressiveness prediction are urgently needed. The aim of the present study was to validate DNA methylation biomarkers for non-invasive SRM detection and prognosis. The levels of methylated genes TFAP2B, TAC1, PCDH8, ZNF677, FLRT2, and FBN2 were evaluated in 165 serial urine samples prospectively collected from 39 patients diagnosed with SRM, specifically renal cell carcinoma (RCC), before and during the AS via quantitative methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. Voided urine samples from 92 asymptomatic volunteers were used as the control. Significantly higher methylated TFAP2B, TAC1, PCDH8, ZNF677, and FLRT2 levels and/or frequencies were detected in SRM patients' urine samples as compared to the control. The highest diagnostic power (AUC = 0.74) was observed for the four biomarkers panel with 92% sensitivity and 52% specificity. Methylated PCDH8 level positively correlated with SRM size at diagnosis, while TFAP2B had the opposite effect and was related to SRM progression. To sum up, SRMs contribute significantly to the amount of methylated DNA detectable in urine, which might be used for very early RCC detection. Moreover, PCDH8 and TFAP2B methylation have the potential to be prognostic biomarkers for SRMs."}, {"title": "Association between genetic risk score and tri-ponderal mass index growth trajectories among different dietary consumption adolescents in a prospective Taiwanese cohort.", "author": ["Wu YF", "Chien KL", "Chen YC"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND: Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in various genetic loci are associated with childhood obesity; however, their influence on adolescent growth patterns has rarely been explored. This study investigated whether genetic variants could predict tri-ponderal mass index (TMI)-derived growth trajectories and the interaction between genetic and dietary factors. METHODS: We conducted Taiwan Puberty Longitudinal Study, a prospective cohort that recruited 1,135 children since 2018. Anthropometric measurements were recorded every three months, while dietary nutrition assessment and biological sampling for genotyping were collected during the first visit. TMI growth trajectory groups were identified using growth mixture modeling. A multinomial logistic regression model for different growth trajectories was used to examine the effect of candidate SNPs, and the most related SNPs were used to establish the genetic risk score. We then explored the effect of the genetic risk score in subgroup analysis according to dietary calories and different dietary consumption patterns. RESULTS: Three TMI-based growth trajectory groups were identified among adolescents. The \"increased weight\" trajectory group accounted for approximately 9.7% of the participants. FTO/rs7206790 was associated with the increased weight growth trajectory after adjusting for the baseline TMI and other correlated covariates (OR: 2.13, 95% CI: 1.08-4.21). We generated the genetic risk score using 4 SNPs (FTO/rs7206790, ADCY9/rs2531995, TFAP2B/rs4715210, and TMEM18/rs6548238) and selected the threshold of 10 points to define risk categories. There were 11.66% and 3.24% of participants belonged to the increased weight trajectory in high- and low-risk groups, respectively; and the predictive ability of the genetic risk score was notable among low calories intake participants (OR: 1.90, 95% CI: 1.18-3.05 vs. OR: 1.17, 95% CI: 0.78-1.75 in high calories intake group). CONCLUSION: Our results offer a new perspective on the genetic and dietary basis of changes in adolescent obesity status. Individualized interventions for obesity prevention may be considered among high-risk children."}, {"title": "DRAGON: Determining Regulatory Associations using Graphical models on multi-Omic Networks.", "author": ["Shutta KH", "Weighill D", "Burkholz R", "Guebila MB", "DeMeo DL", "Zacharias HU", "Quackenbush J", "Altenbuchinger M"], "abstract": "The increasing quantity of multi-omic data, such as methylomic and transcriptomic profiles collected on the same specimen or even on the same cell, provides a unique opportunity to explore the complex interactions that define cell phenotype and govern cellular responses to perturbations. We propose a network approach based on Gaussian Graphical Models (GGMs) that facilitates the joint analysis of paired omics data. This method, called DRAGON (Determining Regulatory Associations using Graphical models on multi-Omic Networks), calibrates its parameters to achieve an optimal trade-off between the network's complexity and estimation accuracy, while explicitly accounting for the characteristics of each of the assessed omics 'layers.' In simulation studies, we show that DRAGON adapts to edge density and feature size differences between omics layers, improving model inference and edge recovery compared to state-of-the-art methods. We further demonstrate in an analysis of joint transcriptome - methylome data from TCGA breast cancer specimens that DRAGON can identify key molecular mechanisms such as gene regulation via promoter methylation. In particular, we identify Transcription Factor AP-2 Beta (TFAP2B) as a potential multi-omic biomarker for basal-type breast cancer. DRAGON is available as open-source code in Python through the Network Zoo package (netZooPy v0.8; netzoo.github.io)."}, {"title": "Changes in Novel Anthropometric Indices of Abdominal Obesity during Weight Loss with Selected Obesity-Associated Single-Nucleotide Polymorphisms: A Small One-Year Pilot Study.", "author": ["Ilowiecka K", "Glibowski P", "Libera J", "Koch W"], "abstract": "Whether BMI and the competing waist circumference (WC)-based anthropometric indices are associated with obesity-related single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) is as yet unknown. The current study aimed to evaluate the anthropometric indices (fat mass index, body shape index, visceral adiposity index, relative fat mass, body roundness index, and conicity index) during a weight loss intervention in 36 obese individuals. Blood biochemical parameters (total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein, and triglycerides) and three SNPs (FTO rs9939609, TFAP2B rs987237, and PLIN1 rs894160) were assessed in 22 women and 14 men (35.58 +/- 9.85 years, BMI 35.04 +/- 3.80 kg/m(2)) who completed a 12-month balanced energy-restricted diet weight loss program. Body composition was assessed via bioelectrical impedance (SECA mBCA515). At the end of the weight loss intervention, all anthropometric indices were significantly reduced (p &lt; 0.05). For the SNP FTO rs9939609, the higher risk allele (A) was characteristic of 88.9% of the study group, in which 10 participants (27.8%) were homozygous. We found a similar distribution of alleles in TFAP2B and PLIN1. Heterozygous genotypes in FTO rs9939609 and TFAP2B rs987237 were predisposed to significant reductions in WC-based novel anthropometric indices during weight loss. The influence of PLIN1 rs894160 polymorphisms on the changes in the analyzed indices during weight loss has not been documented in the present study."}, {"title": "TFAP2B Haploinsufficiency Impacts Gastrointestinal Function and Leads to Pediatric Intestinal Pseudo-obstruction.", "author": ["Zada A", "Kuil LE", "de Graaf BM", "Kakiailatu N", "Windster JD", "Brooks AS", "van Slegtenhorst M", "de Koning B", "Wijnen RMH", "Melotte V", "Hofstra RMW", "Brosens E", "Alves MM"], "abstract": "Background: Pediatric Intestinal Pseudo-obstruction (PIPO) is a congenital enteric disorder characterized by severe gastrointestinal (GI) dysmotility, without mechanical obstruction. Although several genes have been described to cause this disease, most patients do not receive a genetic diagnosis. Here, we aim to identify the genetic cause of PIPO in a patient diagnosed with severe intestinal dysmotility shortly after birth. Methods: Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed in the patient and unaffected parents, in a diagnostic setting. After identification of the potential disease-causing variant, its functional consequences were determined in vitro and in vivo. For this, expression constructs with and without the causing variant, were overexpressed in HEK293 cells. To investigate the role of the candidate gene in GI development and function, a zebrafish model was generated where its expression was disrupted using CRISPR/Cas9 editing. Results: WES analysis identified a de novo heterozygous deletion in TFAP2B (NM_003221.4:c.602-5_606delTCTAGTTCCA), classified as a variant of unknown significance. In vitro studies showed that this deletion affects RNA splicing and results in loss of exon 4, leading to the appearance of a premature stop codon and absence of TFAP2B protein. Disruption of tfap2b in zebrafish led to decreased enteric neuronal numbers and delayed transit time. However, no defects in neuronal differentiation were detected. tfap2b crispants also showed decreased levels of ednrbb mRNA, a downstream target of tfap2b. Conclusion: We showed that TFAP2B haploinsufficiency leads to reduced neuronal numbers and GI dysmotility, suggesting for the first time, that this gene is involved in PIPO pathogenesis."}, {"title": "TRIM37 Augments AP-2gamma Transcriptional Activity and Cellular Localization via K63-linked Ubiquitination to Drive Breast Cancer Progression.", "author": ["Cui G", "Gao Z", "Chang S", "Narwade N", "Chen Y", "Poudel B", "Lei KMK", "Zhang W", "Li G", "Poon TCW", "Cheung E"], "abstract": "Activator Protein 2 gamma (AP-2gamma) is a master transcription factor that plays a critical role in the development and progression of breast cancer. However, the underlying mechanism is still unclear. Herein, using a proteomics approach, we identified Tripartite motif-containing 37 (TRIM37) as a novel coactivator of AP-2gamma-mediated transcription in breast cancer cells. We demonstrate that TRIM37 facilitates AP-2gamma chromatin binding to directly regulate the AP-2gamma mediated transcriptional program. We also show that TRIM37 achieves this by stimulating K63 chain-linked ubiquitination of AP-2gamma, promoting protein localization from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. In clinical analyses, we find TRIM37 is upregulated in multiple breast cancer datasets, supporting our findings that the TRIM37-AP-2gamma interaction is essential for breast cancer tumor growth. Overall, our work reveals that TRIM37 is an oncogenic coactivator of AP-2gamma in breast cancer and provides a novel therapeutic target for treating the disease."}, {"title": "Integrative RNA profiling of TBEV-infected neurons and astrocytes reveals potential pathogenic effectors.", "author": ["Selinger M", "Vechtova P", "Tykalova H", "Oslejskova P", "Rumlova M", "Sterba J", "Grubhoffer L"], "abstract": "Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), the most medically relevant tick-transmitted flavivirus in Eurasia, targets the host central nervous system and frequently causes severe encephalitis. The severity of TBEV-induced neuropathogenesis is highly cell-type specific and the exact mechanism responsible for such differences has not been fully described yet. Thus, we performed a comprehensive analysis of alterations in host poly-(A)/miRNA/lncRNA expression upon TBEV infection in vitro in human primary neurons (high cytopathic effect) and astrocytes (low cytopathic effect). Infection with severe but not mild TBEV strain resulted in a high neuronal death rate. In comparison, infection with either of TBEV strains in human astrocytes did not. Differential expression and splicing analyses with an in silico prediction of miRNA/mRNA/lncRNA/vd-sRNA networks found significant changes in inflammatory and immune response pathways, nervous system development and regulation of mitosis in TBEV Hypr-infected neurons. Candidate mechanisms responsible for the aforementioned phenomena include specific regulation of host mRNA levels via differentially expressed miRNAs/lncRNAs or vd-sRNAs mimicking endogenous miRNAs and virus-driven modulation of host pre-mRNA splicing. We suggest that these factors are responsible for the observed differences in the virulence manifestation of both TBEV strains in different cell lines. This work brings the first complex overview of alterations in the transcriptome of human astrocytes and neurons during the infection by two TBEV strains of different virulence. The resulting data could serve as a starting point for further studies dealing with the mechanism of TBEV-host interactions and the related processes of TBEV pathogenesis."}, {"title": "Allele-specific expression reveals genes with recurrent cis-regulatory alterations in high-risk neuroblastoma.", "author": ["Sen A", "Huo Y", "Elster J", "Zage PE", "McVicker G"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND: Neuroblastoma is a pediatric malignancy with a high frequency of metastatic disease at initial diagnosis. Neuroblastoma tumors have few recurrent protein-coding mutations but contain extensive somatic copy number alterations (SCNAs) suggesting that mutations that alter gene dosage are important drivers of tumorigenesis. Here, we analyze allele-specific expression in 96 high-risk neuroblastoma tumors to discover genes impacted by cis-acting mutations that alter dosage. RESULTS: We identify 1043 genes with recurrent, neuroblastoma-specific allele-specific expression. While most of these genes lie within common SCNA regions, many of them exhibit allele-specific expression in copy neutral samples and these samples are enriched for mutations that are predicted to cause nonsense-mediated decay. Thus, both SCNA and non-SCNA mutations frequently alter gene expression in neuroblastoma. We focus on genes with neuroblastoma-specific allele-specific expression in the absence of SCNAs and find 26 such genes that have reduced expression in stage 4 disease. At least two of these genes have evidence for tumor suppressor activity including the transcription factor TFAP2B and the protein tyrosine phosphatase PTPRH. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our allele-specific expression analysis discovers genes that are recurrently dysregulated by both large SCNAs and other cis-acting mutations in high-risk neuroblastoma."}, {"title": "Prdm6 controls heart development by regulating neural crest cell differentiation and migration.", "author": ["Hong L", "Li N", "Gasque V", "Mehta S", "Ye L", "Wu Y", "Li J", "Gewies A", "Ruland J", "Hirschi KK", "Eichmann A", "Hendry C", "van Dijk D", "Mani A"], "abstract": "The molecular mechanisms that drive the acquisition of distinct neural crest cell (NCC) fates is still poorly understood. Here, we identified Prdm6 as an epigenetic modifier that temporally and spatially regulates the expression of NCC specifiers and determines the fate of a subset of migrating cardiac NCCs (CNCCs). Using transcriptomic analysis and genetic and fate mapping approaches in transgenic mice, we showed that disruption of Prdm6 was associated with impaired CNCC differentiation, delamination, and migration and led to patent ductus arteriosus (DA) and ventricular noncompaction. Bulk and single-cell RNA-Seq analyses of the DA and CNCCs identified Prdm6 as a regulator of a network of CNCC specification genes, including Wnt1, Tfap2b, and Sox9. Loss of Prdm6 in CNCCs diminished its expression in the pre-epithelial-mesenchymal transition (pre-EMT) cluster, resulting in the retention of NCCs in the dorsal neural tube. This defect was associated with diminished H4K20 monomethylation and G1-S progression and augmented Wnt1 transcript levels in pre-EMT and neural tube clusters, which we showed was the major driver of the impaired CNCC migration. Altogether, these findings revealed Prdm6 as a key regulator of CNCC differentiation and migration and identified Prdm6 and its regulated network as potential targets for the treatment of congenital heart diseases."}, {"title": "Tfap2b specifies an embryonic melanocyte stem cell that retains adult multifate potential.", "author": ["Brombin A", "Simpson DJ", "Travnickova J", "Brunsdon H", "Zeng Z", "Lu Y", "Young AIJ", "Chandra T", "Patton EE"], "abstract": "Melanocytes, the pigment-producing cells, are replenished from multiple stem cell niches in adult tissue. Although pigmentation traits are known risk factors for melanoma, we know little about melanocyte stem cell (McSC) populations other than hair follicle McSCs and lack key lineage markers with which to identify McSCs and study their function. Here we find that Tfap2b and a select set of target genes specify an McSC population at the dorsal root ganglia in zebrafish. Functionally, Tfap2b is required for only a few late-stage embryonic melanocytes, and is essential for McSC-dependent melanocyte regeneration. Fate mapping data reveal that tfap2b(+) McSCs have multifate potential, and are the cells of origin for large patches of adult melanocytes, two other pigment cell types (iridophores and xanthophores), and nerve-associated cells. Hence, Tfap2b confers McSC identity in early development, distinguishing McSCs from other neural crest and pigment cell lineages, and retains multifate potential in the adult zebrafish."}, {"title": "Clinical significance of novel DNA methylation biomarkers for renal clear cell carcinoma.", "author": ["Kubiliute R", "Zukauskaite K", "Zalimas A", "Ulys A", "Sabaliauskaite R", "Bakavicius A", "Zelvys A", "Jankevicius F", "Jarmalaite S"], "abstract": "OBJECTIVE: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common type of kidney tumor characterized by the highest mortality rate of the genitourinary cancers, and, therefore, new diagnostic and/or prognostic biomarkers are urgently needed. METHODS: Based on genome-wide DNA methylation profiling in 11 pairs of ccRCC and non-cancerous renal tissues (NRT), the methylation at regulatory regions of ZNF677, FBN2, PCDH8, TFAP2B, TAC1, and FLRT2 was analyzed in 168 renal tissues and 307 urine samples using qualitative and quantitative methylation-specific PCR (MSP). RESULTS: Significantly higher methylation frequencies for all genes were found in ccRCC tissues compared to NRT (33-60% vs. 0-11%). The best diagnostic performance demonstrated a panel of ZNF677, FBN2, PCDH8, TFAP2B & TAC1 with 82% sensitivity and 96% specificity. Hypermethylation of ZNF677 and PCDH8 in the tissue samples was significantly related to numerous adverse clinicopathologic parameters. For the urine-based ccRCC detection, the highest diagnostic power (AUC = 0.78) was observed for a panel of ZNF677 & PCDH8 (with or without FBN2 or FLRT2) with 69-78% sensitivity and 69-80% specificity, albeit with lower values in the validation cohort. Besides, methylation of PCDH8 was significantly related to higher tumor stage and fat invasion in the study and validation cohorts. Moreover, PCDH8 was strongly predictive for OS (HR, 5.7; 95% CI 1.16-28.12), and its prognostic power considerably increased in combination with ZNF677 (HR, 12.5; 95% CI 1.47-105.58). CONCLUSION: In summary, our study revealed novel, potentially promising DNA methylation biomarkers of ccRCC with the possibility to be applied for non-invasive urine-based ccRCC detection and follow-up."}, {"title": "Heterogeneous miRNA-mRNA Regulatory Networks of Visceral and Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue in the Relationship Between Obesity and Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma.", "author": ["Liu Y", "Liu Y", "Hu J", "He Z", "Liu L", "Ma Y", "Wen D"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is one of the most lethal urologic cancer. Associations of both visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) with ccRCC have been reported, and underlying mechanisms of VAT perhaps distinguished from SAT, considering their different structures and functions. We performed this study to disclose different miRNA-mRNA networks of obesity-related ccRCC in VAT and SAT using datasets from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA); and find out different RNAs correlated with the prognosis of ccRCC in VAT and SAT. METHODS: We screened out different expressed (DE) mRNAs and miRNAs of obesity, in both VAT and SAT from GEO datasets, and constructed miRNA-mRNA networks of obesity-related ccRCC. To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of RNAs in networks of obesity-related ccRCC in both VAT and SAT, Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analyses were conducted using TCGA datasets. Spearman correlation analyses were then performed to find out RNA pairs with inverse correlations. We also performed Cox regression analyses to estimate the association of all DE RNAs of obesity with the overall survival. RESULTS: 136 and 185 DE mRNAs of obesity in VAT and SAT were found out. Combined with selected DE miRNAs, miRNA-mRNA networks of obesity-related ccRCC were constructed. By performing ROC analyses, RNAs with same trend as shown in networks and statistically significant ORs were selected to be paired. Three pairs were finally remained in Spearman correlation analyses, including hsa-miR-182&ATP2B2, hsa-miR-532&CDH2 in VAT, and hsa-miR-425&TFAP2B in SAT. Multivariable Cox regression analyses showed that several RNAs with statistically significant adjusted HRs remained consistent trends as shown in DE analyses of obesity. Risk score analyses using selected RNAs showed that the overall survival time of patients in the low-risk group was significantly longer than that in the high-risk group regardless of risk score models. CONCLUSIONS: We found out different miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks of obesity-related ccRCC for both VAT and SAT; and several DE RNAs of obesity-related ccRCC were found to remain consistent performance in terms of ccRCC prognosis. Our findings could provide valuable evidence on the targeted therapy of obesity-related ccRCC."}, {"title": "Epigenetic clock and DNA methylation analysis of porcine models of aging and obesity.", "author": ["Schachtschneider KM", "Schook LB", "Meudt JJ", "Shanmuganayagam D", "Zoller JA", "Haghani A", "Li CZ", "Zhang J", "Yang A", "Raj K", "Horvath S"], "abstract": "DNA-methylation profiles have been used successfully to develop highly accurate biomarkers of age, epigenetic clocks, for many species. Using a custom methylation array, we generated DNA methylation data from n = 238 porcine tissues including blood, bladder, frontal cortex, kidney, liver, and lung, from domestic pigs (Sus scrofa domesticus) and minipigs (Wisconsin Miniature Swine). Samples used in this study originated from Large White X Landrace crossbred pigs, Large White X Minnesota minipig crossbred pigs, and Wisconsin Miniature Swine. We present 4 epigenetic clocks for pigs that are distinguished by their compatibility with tissue type (pan-tissue and blood clock) and species (pig and human). Two dual-species human-pig pan-tissue clocks accurately measure chronological age and relative age, respectively. We also characterized CpGs that differ between minipigs and domestic pigs. Strikingly, several genes implicated by our epigenetic studies of minipig status overlap with genes (ADCY3, TFAP2B, SKOR1, and GPR61) implicated by genetic studies of body mass index in humans. In addition, CpGs with different levels of methylation between the two pig breeds were identified proximal to genes involved in blood LDL levels and cholesterol synthesis, of particular interest given the minipig's increased susceptibility to cardiovascular disease compared to domestic pigs. Thus, breed-specific differences of domestic and minipigs may potentially help to identify biological mechanisms underlying weight gain and aging-associated diseases. Our porcine clocks are expected to be useful for elucidating the role of epigenetics in aging and obesity, and the testing of anti-aging interventions."}, {"title": "Conditional Deletion of AP-2beta in the Periocular Mesenchyme of Mice Alters Corneal Epithelial Cell Fate and Stratification.", "author": ["Walker H", "Taiyab A", "Deschamps P", "Williams T", "West-Mays JA"], "abstract": "The cornea is an anterior eye structure specialized for vision. The corneal endothelium and stroma are derived from the periocular mesenchyme (POM), which originates from neural crest cells (NCCs), while the stratified corneal epithelium develops from the surface ectoderm. Activating protein-2beta (AP-2beta) is highly expressed in the POM and important for anterior segment development. Using a mouse model in which AP-2beta is conditionally deleted in the NCCs (AP-2beta NCC KO), we investigated resulting corneal epithelial abnormalities. Through PAS and IHC staining, we observed structural and phenotypic changes to the epithelium associated with AP-2beta deletion. In addition to failure of the mutant epithelium to stratify, we also observed that Keratin-12, a marker of the differentiated epithelium, was absent, and Keratin-15, a limbal and conjunctival marker, was expanded across the central epithelium. Transcription factors PAX6 and P63 were not observed to be differentially expressed between WT and mutant. However, growth factor BMP4 was suppressed in the mutant epithelium. Given the non-NCC origin of the epithelium, we hypothesize that the abnormalities in the AP-2beta NCC KO mouse result from changes to regulatory signaling from the POM-derived stroma. Our findings suggest that stromal pathways such as Wnt/beta-Catenin signaling may regulate BMP4 expression, which influences cell fate and stratification."}, {"title": "Genome-Wide Analysis for Early Growth-Related Traits of the Locally Adapted Egyptian Barki Sheep.", "author": ["Abousoliman I", "Reyer H", "Oster M", "Murani E", "Mohamed I", "Wimmers K"], "abstract": "Sheep play a critical role in the agricultural and livestock sector in Egypt. For sheep meat production, growth traits such as birth and weaning weights are very important and determine the supply and income of local farmers. The Barki sheep originates from the northeastern coastal zone of Africa, and due to its good adaptation to the harsh environmental conditions, it contributes significantly to the meat production in these semi-arid regions. This study aimed to use a genome-wide SNP panel to identify genomic regions that are diversified between groups of individuals of Egyptian Barki sheep with high and low growth performance traits. In this context, from a phenotyped population of 140 lambs of Barki sheep, 69 lambs were considered for a genome-wide scan with the Illumina OvineSNP50 V2 BeadChip. The selected lambs were grouped into divergent subsets with significantly different performance for birth weight and weaning weight. After quality control, 63 animals and 40,383 SNPs were used for analysis. The fixation index (F(ST)) for each SNP was calculated between the groups. The results verified genomic regions harboring some previously proposed candidate genes for traits related to body growth, i.e., EYA2, GDF2, GDF10, MEF2B, SLC16A7, TBX15, TFAP2B, and TNNC2. Moreover, novel candidate genes were proposed with known functional implications on growth processes such as CPXM2 and LRIG3. Subsequent association analysis showed significant effects of the considered SNPs on birth and weaning weights. Results highlight the genetic diversity associated with performance traits and thus the potential to improve growth traits in the Barki sheep breed."}, {"title": "Transcriptomics based multi-dimensional characterization and drug screen in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.", "author": ["Li Y", "Xu F", "Chen F", "Chen Y", "Ge D", "Zhang S", "Lu C"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND: Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains one of the deadly cancer types. Comprehensively dissecting the molecular characterization and the heterogeneity of ESCC paves the way for developing more promising therapeutics. METHODS: Expression profiles of multiple ESCC datasets were integrated. ATAC-seq and RNA-seq were combined to reveal the chromatin accessibility features. A prognosis-related subtype classifier (PrSC) was constructed, and its association with the tumor microenvironment (TME) and immunotherapy was assessed. The key gene signature was validated in clinical samples. Based on the TME heterogeneity of ESCC patients, potential subtype-specific therapeutic agents were screened. FINDINGS: The common differentially expressed genes (cDEGs) in ESCC were identified. Up-regulated genes (HEATR1, TIMELESS, DTL, GINS1, RUVBL1, and ECT2) were found highly important in ESCC cell survival. The expression alterations of PRIM2, HPGD, NELL2, and TFAP2B were associated with chromatin accessibility changes. PrSC was a robust scoring tool that was not only associated with the prognosis of ESCC patients, but also could reflect the TME heterogeneity. TNS1(high) fibroblasts were associated with immune exclusion. TG-101348 and Vinorelbine were identified as potential subtype-specific therapeutic agents. Besides, the application of PrSC into two immunotherapy cohorts indicated its potential value in assessing treatment response to immunotherapy. INTERPRETATION: Our study depicted the multi-dimensional characterization of ESCC, established a robust scoring tool for the prognosis assessment, highlighted the role of TNS1(high) fibroblasts in TME, and identified potential drugs for clinical use. FUNDING: A full list of funding bodies that contributed to this study can be found in the Acknowledgements section."}, {"title": "Identification of novel candidate genes implicated in odontogenic potential in the developing mouse tooth germ using transcriptome analysis.", "author": ["Shin YK", "Cheon S", "Kim SD", "Moon JS", "Kim JY", "Kim SH", "Park C", "Kim MS"], "abstract": "BACKGROUND: In tooth bioengineering for replacement therapy of missing teeth, the utilized cells must possess an inductive signal-forming ability to initiate odontogenesis. This ability is called odontogenic potential. In mice, the odontogenic potential signal is known to be translocated from the epithelium to the mesenchyme at the early bud stage in the developing molar tooth germ. However, the identity of the molecular constituents of this process remains unclear. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to determine the molecular identity of odontogenic potential and to provide a new perspective in the field of tooth development research. METHODS: In this study, whole transcriptome profiles of the mouse molar tooth germ epithelium and mesenchyme were investigated using the RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) technique. The analyzed transcriptomes corresponded to two developmental stages, embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5) and 14.5 (E14.5), which represent the odontogenic potential shifts. RESULTS: We identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), which were specifically overexpressed in both the E11.5 epithelium and E14.5 mesenchyme, but not expressed in their respective counterparts. Of the 55 DEGs identified, the top three most expressed transcription factor genes (transcription factor AP-2 beta isoform 3 [TFAP2B], developing brain homeobox protein 2 [DBX2], and insulin gene enhancer protein ISL-1 [ISL1]) and three tooth development-related genes (transcription factor HES-5 [HES5], platelet-derived growth factor D precursor [PDGFD], semaphrin-3 A precursor [SEMA3A]) were selected and validated by quantitative RT-PCR. Using immunofluorescence staining, the TFAP2B protein expression was found to be localized only at the E11.5 epithelium and E14.5 mesenchyme. CONCLUSIONS: Thus, our empirical findings in the present study may provide a new perspective into the characterization of the molecules responsible for the odontogenic potential and may have an implication in the cell-based whole tooth regeneration strategy."}, {"title": "The Long-Term Dietitian and Psychological Support of Obese Patients Who Have Reduced Their Weight Allows Them to Maintain the Effects.", "author": ["Ilowiecka K", "Glibowski P", "Skrzypek M", "Styk W"], "abstract": "The role of post-therapeutic support after weight loss in obesity treatment is not fully understood. Therefore, weight maintenance after a successful weight loss intervention is not very common, especially in obese individuals. This randomized controlled study was conducted to explore the efficacy of following dietary and psychological support in a group of 36 obese individuals. Participants (22 women, 14 men aged 35.58 +/- 9.85 years, BMI 35.04 +/- 3.80 kg/m(2)) who completed a 12-month weight loss phase (balanced energy-restricted diet) were randomly allocated to receive 18-month support (SG) or no additional care (CG). The support phase included some elements of Ten Top Tips (TTT), cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), motivational interviewing (MI) in combination with nutritional education and assessment of the level of physical activity. The primary outcome was the maintenance of anthropometric parameters at an 18-month follow-up. The secondary outcomes included evaluation of biochemical parameters and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes connected with obesity. A comparison of SG vs. CG after a 30-month period of the study revealed significant differences in weight changes (-3.83 +/- 6.09 vs. 2.48 +/- 6.24 kg), Body Mass Index (-1.27 +/- 2.02 vs. 0.72 +/- 2.12 kg/m(2)), visceral adipose tissue (-0.58 +/- 0.63 vs. 0.45 +/- 0.74 L), and waist circumference (-4.83 +/- 4.05 vs. 1.83 +/- 5.97 cm). Analysis of SNPs (rs9939609 FTO, rs987237 TFAP2B, and rs894160 PLIN1) provided further insight into the potential modulating effect of certain genotypes on weight loss and maintenance and extended the knowledge of the potential benefits of personalized medicine. Post-therapeutical support in current clinical practice may increase the chances of long-term weight loss maintenance in obesity treatment even in patients with a genetic predisposition to excessive weight."}, {"title": "Co-expression of transcription factor AP-2beta (TFAP2B) and GATA3 in human mammary epithelial cells with intense, apicobasal immunoreactivity for CK8/18.", "author": ["Raap M", "Gierendt L", "Werlein C", "Kuehnle E", "Kreipe HH", "Christgen M"], "abstract": "AP-2beta is a new mammary epithelial differentiation marker and its expression is preferentially retained and enhanced in lobular carcinoma in situ and invasive lobular breast cancer. In normal breast epithelium AP-2beta is expressed in a scattered subpopulation of luminal cells. So far, these cells have not been further characterized. Co-expression of AP-2beta protein and luminal epithelium markers (GATA3, CK8/18), hormone receptors [estrogen receptor (ER), androgen receptor (AR)] and candidate stem cells markers (CK5/14, CD44) were assessed by double-immunofluorescence staining in normal mammary gland epithelium. The subpopulation of AP-2beta-positive mammary epithelial cells showed an almost complete, superimposable co-expression with GATA3 and a peculiar intense, ring-like appearing immunoreactivity for CK8/18. Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy revealed an apicobasal staining for CK8/18 in AP-2beta-positive cells, which was not seen in in AP-2beta-negative cells. Furthermore, AP-2beta-positive displayed a partial co-expression with ER and AR, but lacked expression of candidate stem cell markers CK5/14 and CD44. In summary, AP-2beta is a new luminal mammary epithelial differentiation marker, which is expressed in the GATA3-positive subpopulation of luminal epithelial cells. These AP-2beta-positive/GATA3-positive cells also show a peculiar CK8/18-expression which may indicate a previously unknown functionally specialized mammary epithelial cell population."}]